#summary Minifying inline style and JS code blocks
#sidebar TableOfContents

If your page contains `<script>` and `<style>` tags containing JS and CSS code blocks, you may prefer to minify that code blocks as well to reduce the page size. `YUIMinTag` can help you with that.

*[YUIMinTag]* is the JSP custom tag to expose [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/compressor/ YUICompressor] functionality in the JSP to minify/compress inline CSS, JS code blocks.

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

=Configuration=

Declare the taglib and prefix in your JSP file.

{{{
<%@ taglib uri="http://webutilities.googlecode.com/taglib/wu" prefix="wu" %>
}}}
 
=Usage=

Then use the *wu:minify* tag to minify your inline JS

{{{
 <wu:minify type="js">
        //...
  	// your inline uncompressed JS
  	//... 	
 </wu:minify>
}}}
 
OR CSS.

{{{
 <wu:minify type="css">
  	//...
  	// your inline uncompressed CSS
  	//...
 </wu:minify>
}}}

=Customization=

It supports attributes similar to YUICompressor's command line options. Below are the attributes and their explanations. All these attributes are optional except *type*.
  
  * *type* - possible values are js or css. The only required attribute. Usage as seen above.
  * *lineBreak* - equivalent to YUICompressor --line-break. Insert a line break after the specified column number
  * *noMunge* - equivalent to YUICompressor --nomunge. Minify only, do not obfuscate. Default false.
  * *preserveSemi* - equivalent to YUICompressor --preserve-semi. Preserve all semicolons. Default false. 
  * *disableOptimizations* - equivalent to YUICompressor --disable-optimizations. Disable all micro optimizations. Default false. 

===Limitations===

Current version of minify tag *does not support charset option*.